resume.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Resume
page-title: My professional self.
---

## John Otander
Boise, Idaho   
[johnotander@gmail.com](mailto:johnotander@gmail.com) | [johnotander.com](http://www.johnotander.com) | [github.com/johnotander](https://github.com/johnotander)

Software craftsman with experience in all facets of web application development. Significant expertise in web/mobile design and user experience by creating aesthetically pleasing user interfaces and intuitive interactions. Skilled at developing modern, RESTful applications with data analytics, 3rd-party API integration, and efficient database queries.

## Education
Boise State University, Boise ID: Bachelor of Science, expected May 2015   
_Major:_ Computer Science
<br>
<br>
Montana State University, Bozeman MT: Bachelor of Arts, December 2010   
_Major:_ Modern Languages and Literature: Hispanic Studies   
_Graduated with High Honors_

## Buzz Words

Ruby, Rails, AJAX, Javascript/Coffescript, jQuery, JSON, CSS, Sass/Scss, iOS, Objective-C, Android, Java, HTML/HAML/Mustache/Handlebars, Git, Rspec, SQL, Postgres, Ember, Bower, Gulp, Yeoman, Grunt, TDD, Agile development, AWS, ImageMagick, C

## Skills

  - Full stack Ruby on Rails development
  - Ability to perform under pressure
  - Well versed in Software Development best practices
  - Astute attention to detail
  - Exceptional at writing thorough, efficient tests
  - Practitioner of unobtrusive Javascript
  - Passionate about learning new technology

## Work Experience

#### Uceem Networks, Developer - Boise, ID   
_Summer 2012 - Present_  
Responsible for developing and designing a cloud-based dashboard for network configuration and usage analytics. Leading the design of all aspects of the web application and homepage, while being an integral component of the development of the entire stack.

Duties and Responsibilities   

  - Leading the design of a beautiful dashboard and user interface
  - Full stack Ruby on Rails development, from server configuration to button placement
  - Payment and billing integration, ensuring PCI compliance
  - Developing a RESTy API for internal resources and end users
  - Integration with 3rd-party APIs
  - Continuous open source contributions to relevant libraries and gems
  - Collaborating and coordinating with a small, nimble team

#### Margin.io, Co-founder - Boise, ID   
_Summer 2013 - Present_  
Lead developer/designer for a web application consultancy with clients that include a startup from the Silicon Valley. Tasks include managing, coordinating, and collaborating with a development team, delivering contracts on a strict deadline, and ensuring company-wide adherence to coding best practices.

#### Freelance Web Design/Development - Boise, ID   
_Summer 2010 - Summer 2012_  
Designed custom, static websites with clean, responsive CSS, HTML, and Javascript/JQuery.

#### Computers Unlimited, Intern - Bozeman, MT   
_Summer 2009_  
Primarily tasked with debugging large-scale information management software in C#, SQL, Synergy, and converting antiquated procedural code to a new, Object-Oriented software system.

#### Hauser Architects, Intern - San Francisco, CA   
_Summer 2007_  
Primarily tasked with web development, design, and maintenance.

## Activities

Bronco Appathon 2013, 2nd Place Team  
_Built an iOS app with map integration and a RESTful Rails API backend in 36 hours_

Co-organizer of, and speaker at, a local Ruby usergroup: [Localmotion](http://localmotion.io) 

Open source contributor

Studied abroad in Costa Rica (Universidad Veritas)

Avid outdoor enthusiast - skiing, climbing, running, cycling

Commit message:

Move furtive, add content to resume

resume.md, after:

## John Otander
Boise, Idaho   
[johnotander@gmail.com](mailto:johnotander@gmail.com) | [johnotander.com](http://www.johnotander.com) | [github.com/johnotander](https://github.com/johnotander)

I'm a software craftsman with experience in all facets of web application development. Significant expertise in web/mobile design and user experience by creating aesthetically pleasing user interfaces and intuitive interactions. Skilled at developing modern, RESTful applications with data analytics, 3rd-party API integration, and efficient database queries.

My primary emphasis is the front end, where I write performant, reusable CSS/Javascript and design interfaces that are easy, and a delight, to use. I'm passionate about automation, and invest time in automating tasks with Gulp, Yeoman, and other tools.

## Education
Boise State University, Boise ID: Bachelor of Science, expected May 2015   
_Major:_ Computer Science
<br>
<br>
Montana State University, Bozeman MT: Bachelor of Arts, December 2010   
_Major:_ Modern Languages and Literature: Hispanic Studies   
_Graduated with High Honors_

## Buzz Words

Ruby, Rails, AJAX, Javascript/Coffescript, jQuery, JSON, CSS, Sass/Scss, iOS, Objective-C, Android, Java, HTML/HAML/Mustache/Handlebars, Git, Rspec, SQL, Postgres, Ember, Bower, Gulp, Yeoman, Grunt, TDD, Agile development, AWS, ImageMagick, C

## Skills

  - Full stack Ruby on Rails development
  - Efficient, simple, and beautiful CSS/HTML
  - Ability to perform under pressure
  - Well versed in Software Development best practices
  - Astute attention to detail
  - Exceptional at writing thorough, efficient tests
  - Practitioner of unobtrusive Javascript
  - Passionate about learning new technology

## Work Experience

#### A10 Networks, Software Engineer - Boise, ID
_March 2014 - Present_
 
Responsible for developing and designing cloud configuration infrastructure for network appliances, including web apps, API design, and asset optimization. Tasked with developing an internal front end framework (Bootstrap wrapper) for all web products. Primary technologies: Ruby on Rails, CSS, SCSS, HTML, and Javascript.


#### Uceem Networks, Developer - Boise, ID   
_Summer 2012 - March 2014_

Responsible for developing and designing a cloud-based dashboard for network configuration and usage analytics. Leading the design of all aspects of the web application and homepage, while being an integral component of the development of the entire stack.

Duties and Responsibilities   

  - Leading the design of a beautiful dashboard and user interface
  - Full stack Ruby on Rails development, from server configuration to button placement
  - Payment and billing integration, ensuring PCI compliance
  - Developing a RESTy API for internal resources and end users
  - Integration with 3rd-party APIs
  - Continuous open source contributions to relevant libraries and gems
  - Collaborating and coordinating with a small, nimble team

#### Margin.io, Co-founder - Boise, ID   
_Summer 2013 - Present_  
Lead developer/designer for a web application consultancy with clients that include a startup from the Silicon Valley. Tasks include managing, coordinating, and collaborating with a development team, delivering contracts on a strict deadline, and ensuring company-wide adherence to coding best practices.

#### Freelance Web Design/Development - Boise, ID   
_Summer 2010 - Summer 2012_  
Designed custom, static websites with clean, responsive CSS, HTML, and Javascript/JQuery.

#### Computers Unlimited, Intern - Bozeman, MT   
_Summer 2009_  
Primarily tasked with debugging large-scale information management software in C#, SQL, Synergy, and converting antiquated procedural code to a new, Object-Oriented software system.

#### Hauser Architects, Intern - San Francisco, CA   
_Summer 2007_  
Primarily tasked with web development, design, and maintenance.

## Activities

Bronco Appathon 2013, 2nd Place Team  
_Built an iOS app with map integration and a RESTful Rails API backend in 36 hours_

Co-organizer of, and speaker at, a local Ruby usergroup: [Localmotion](http://localmotion.io) 

Open source contributor

Studied abroad in Costa Rica (Universidad Veritas)

Avid outdoor enthusiast - skiing, climbing, running, cycling
